You’ve probably seen the breathtaking images beamed back to us by the James Webb Space Telescope from a million miles away at the Earth-Sun L2 Lagrange point.
The first of these images that was revealed to the public included an impossibly detailed look at what NASA Administrator Bill Nelson said was a patch of our sky that would be as large as “a grain of sand held at arm’s length” to someone standing on the Earth’s surface. In that single image, we saw an estimated 5,500 galaxies, containing trillions and trillions of stars, and all while looking back
13.2 billion years in time.
Faced with such enormity, it can feel like there is more time—and more work—behind us than in front of us.
But the reality is that our universe is still in its infancy. Thirteen billion years is a blink of the eye in the trillions
of years it is theorized that our universe will exist.
I have always been inspired by this idea:
Be humble for we are made
of dust. Be noble for we
are made of stars.
What does that have to do with OpenText? Our company
and our universe share something important in common: though we have some time under our belts, our most inspiring and exciting times are still to come.
Seismic shiftThe next few years will transform OpenText. Earlier this year, we introduced the OpenVerse™—the next phase of evolution for our company.In the simplest terms, the OpenVerse™ is about OpenText being reborn in the cloud. But the simplest terms hardly ever capture the full scope of an idea.In reality, the OpenVerse™ is not only a shift to the cloud, but rather a wholesale reimagining of how information is managed via technology where we are no longer bound by location, infrastructure, time or space. Machines now generate one million times more information in one day than all humans on this planet do in an entire year.The OpenVerse™ is being designed to change the way machines, people and organizations use information to work and collaborate, how supply chains become just-in-time networks, how individuals experience and trust information, and how we can truly deliver on the promise of the Information Age, where machines are the primary generators of information.It is the future of our company. It is the future of business. It is the cloud, and beyond, past the reaches of the stratosphere. It is exponential. It is quantum. What is the universe computing if not itself?No one can know exactly where we’re going. Thirty years ago, I was gazing at circuit boards through a microscope trying to puzzle out and understand Von Neumann much of our industries and our lives. I started my career in compilers with a love of language and computational linguistics. Compilers are the creators of all software—they are the big bang of the digital universe. I didn’t know business software would be my career. I was peering through microscopes to make sure we got the details right, working to perfect recursion and register coloring, generating assembly language through translators, and using Yacc to parse different code languages. Floating point processors, C, Windows, Unix and C++ were still new, still raw. The staggering computational power, and connectivity, and automation, of our current world were metaphorical light years away. The most powerful library function I had was malloc() and we communicated through printf(). It was the computer-age equivalent of stone knives and bearskins.But progress moves quickly. Faster than we can ever imagine. We traversed those light years in barely three decades. And the pace hasn’t stopped. As a company, we have sped to keep pace with advancing technology. And if I indulge in a moment of reflection, we’ve succeeded. The work we’ve done to create platforms and solutions that many of the top companies on Earth use to stay in business every day is nothing short of staggering. We are relentless and determined in advancing how companies use and empower information. We have helped the world’s largest companies evolve, and so too have we evolved.
Information growth is exponential and accelerating. We have never moved this fast. We will never move this slowly again. The extremeThis unstoppable tidal wave of progress carries us, shapes us, drives us forward. In my lifetime, I hope to see Von Neumann architecture die out and be replaced by quantum. Silicon Valley will have to be renamed Graphene Valley, as graphene will replace silicon as the substrate platform of choice. Moore’s law will yield to Metcalfe’s law as the world is increasingly powered by distributed networks (and we’ll talk more of grids later on).At OpenText, we have embraced this momentum as an essential piece of our core philosophy. We are defined by digital, and forged by code. But even as I write about microscopes and sweating the details, just as important is taking a step back, or up, and looking at the big picture. It is important we develop the skills to look both through a microscope—the details—and a telescope—the big picture.The forces that shaped the mainframe and the birth of software and the explosion of the computer age—the rise of the personal computer, client/server computing, mobility and the internet—were precursors to the world we live in now. They shaped where we have come, but they do not dictate where we are going.The future is always made from the best parts of today, and we write our own future. We are taking the next step at OpenText—into the OpenVerse.
We are working to leverage the extremes of this ever-changing world.Extreme connectivity—five billion people on one network, and everything is always on, 24/7.Extreme automation—technology that can act for itself, and the APIs that direct it.Extreme computing power—ubiquitous infrastructure more powerful than any of us could have imagined back in the 1980s. We all have a supercomputer in our pocket.In this age of extremes, OpenTexters take a leading role in making and moving the future. We see the potential before us, the goals that we can reach, and we set ourselves the task of bending the future to our will.And we have fun along the way.DetourHere is a maze. See if you can find your way to the end. Don’t be afraid to mark up this book. That’s what it’s for.
That wasn’t so bad, was it?
How did you get there? What did your path look like?
Maybe you set off in one direction on a whim, forging a path as you went. You may have hit a few obstacles along the way.
Eventually, I’m sure you found your way to the finish. But here’s the thing, there was more than one way to get there.
Are you the type to consider multiple paths before putting pen to paper? Some people like to start at the conclusion and work backwards, eliminating potential missteps ahead of time.
There’s no wrong way to get to the finish. The important thing is setting your eyes on the goal.
But what if I showed you that same maze in a different light?
Flip back to your first attempt at the maze. How many of these pieces did you collect on your first time through?
All of them? One or two? None at all?
Try it again, but this time set yourself some new objectives.
Remember, to lead is always a choice. Leadership is not a right. It is not given. It is not anointed solely from one’s position. Leadership is developed, earned, and it is a choice. The choice is yours.Stepping outside the linesI like to think of this little exercise as being emblematic of what it’s like to work at OpenText. At other companies, you’re not only given a task and a goal, you’re also given a rigid set of directives within which you operate. They tell you where you’re going and precisely how you’re supposed to get there.No deviations. No stepping off the beaten path.That’s not how we operate. I’ve heard from colleagues here that when they arrived at OpenText, they had to retrain the muscle memory they had built up from dealing with the lack of trust where paths are dictated and decisions are made only by a select few.At OpenText, we cherish the ability for all of our employees to explore the maze—and their careers—in their own unique way, so long as our eyes are fixed on the goal. It is my job, and the job of leadership, to help our employees be their best, to encourage being true to one’s self, to unlock their potential and passions, in the context of our business. We understand that sometimes the greatest discoveries are made when you venture away from the straightest line between two points. Maybe it’s a technological advancement that no one anticipated. Maybe it’s the solution to a customer problem that no one had thought to solve before.
Careers are not ladders—worst analogy ever. A ladder implies a straight line, the need to knock others off the rungs above you to advance, and for you to drop your luggage so you can climb faster. Careers (not jobs) are purposeful—you navigate the opportunities and obstacles along the way, and you almost never move in a straight line.And we also recognize that everyone makes the wrong choice sometimes. It’s human. It’s real life. Our first thought when someone makes a mistake isn’t to reprimand or criticize, but rather to explore what the person learned. It is a part of our company that I greatly value. We have been shaped by what we observe about how other companies operate that we do not accept as part of the status quo.Choosing to be differentI’ve experienced that rigid corporate culture in my past. I’ve seen what it does to a company, and the people who work there. I’ve learned from every experience I’ve had—positive and negative. I am my experiences, as you are yours.I’ve seen how companies encourage productive growth and outcomes in its employees. I’ve also seen environments that bring out the worst in people. Deliberately.There was a time, earlier in my career at another company, when I was leading a department. We had rival divisions, and we were always set against each other for resources, money, people. In one particular instance, another department head and I were explicitly matched up and told “Only one of you can win. Go out and kill the other guy.”
So I did. I won. My group came out ahead. The philosophy was to ‘set the best people up to fight and then see who wins.’ Participating in that process, even willingly at the time, felt terrible. It leaves you hollowed out. You’ve won, but at what cost and through what amount of pointless waste?When I came to OpenText, I swore never to create an environment like that. I had to shed that skin. OpenTexters don’t see each other as adversaries. We rally together for the right outcome. We are incentivized to work together, to push each other to be better.I believe it’s part of what I see as the Canadian heart of OpenText. We are a global company, with operations in Canada, the United States, Brazil, Mexico, India, the Philippines, Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, South Africa, Australia, Singapore, Korea, China and many more countries. But we began in Waterloo, Ontario, and that Canadian DNA remains and informs everything we are and everything we do.We are kind, but we are fierce. We may fight, but we understand that we are challenging each other in service of something greater, not to push someone else down to step over them. True OpenText characterCharacter grows out of the values that individuals hold—and uphold—as important to them in all aspects of their lives.It can’t be faked. It can’t be forced.
Character is the natural result of bringing a group, no matter what the size, of like-minded people together, and the result being more than the sum of its parts.Only a handful have been able to achieve this at scale. That’s what makes OpenText, OpenText.I believe this character is what allows our company to stand as unique in an industry that too often puts outcomes ahead of people.But what does that have to do with you?You might be a current OpenText employee wondering why the hell Mark is sending you this book to read.You might be a prospective OpenText employee who wants to know exactly what you’ll be getting into.Or you might just be someone curious to know more about what makes OpenText unique.Now is the right time for this book, for this examination of our company. So why should you read this book? Why do we deserve even these slim few minutes of your precious time and attention? Because we want to show you why you belong here—or maybe even why you don’t. And because I want to shine a light on what makes this company, and the people who comprise it, so special. At the end of the day, this is about ROIT: return on invested time. If it takes me 100 hours to write this book, and it takes you 2 hours to read it, I am hopeful this will have a high return, with one of three outcomes: 1.You will come work with us and build the OpenVerse. 2.If you’re already here, you can help us even more. 3.That we are not a good fit at this stage of your career.
OpenText is 30 years young as a company. It took us those 30 years to achieve $3.5 billion in revenues, and we aspire to double again. We recently announced our intent to acquire Micro Focus, which we believe greatly expands our potential and accelerates our aspirations.We were not born cloud, but the cloud is the single-most prevailing and pivotal technology movement of the current age, so we are reborn. This rebirth makes us stronger, due in no small way to the fact that we have such a strong foundation to build from. And we’re not stopping there. Clouds can only reach as high as about 280,000 feet above the surface of the earth. We’re reaching beyond that, into outer space. Into the OpenVerse™.We embrace the currents of the forces that have made us who we are, and that continue to remake the world around us. We embrace connectivity, security, innovation, putting our customers first, and most importantly, retaining our humanity and helping each other thrive today and in the future.
At the end of the day, a company is who they hire, fire and promote. A lot of this comes down to what we ask of potential employees, and what we look for in the culture of companies we acquire. Skills can be taught. Character can’t.There are a ton of tactical, day-to-day HR methods to measure performance and to gauge certain types of value that an individual brings to a company. We use plenty of them, measuring tasks against performance, outcomes against plans, and so on.The alchemy in finding the right people comes in what you can’t measure—either before someone is hired or even once they’ve been at your company for many years.Plot an X/Y graph. On the X axis is time. On the Y axis is what you can accomplish (your potential). The Y intercept is what you know today—it might be anywhere; a notch or two above baseline, at the baseline, many notches up, or even below zero. But here’s the lesson: a little bit of slope can make up for a lot of Y intercept.Slope is the rate of learning, and you should always hire the individual with greater growth potential, even above someone with more experience, if you are confident of the slope.
Truly assessing what a person—what a company—is potentially capable of is the greatest unsolved riddle in business.We look for people who exhibit characteristics of what we like to call the G-Force.This type of person shows qualities of a few special characteristics and embraces certain ideas.We seek gamers. With grit. Who are at home in guilds, and embrace growth and goals. Who practice gratitude. 
The G-Force.
GamersThere is something about the feeling of cracking a seemingly impossible puzzle that can’t be duplicated anywhere else in the human experience.Physical challenges can’t quite scratch the same itch. Maybe someone grows a little taller, is built a little stronger, can hold their breath a little longer, and they are advantaged.But curiosity is universal. The desire to uncover what is hidden. The drive to fill in the blanks, to crack the code. When curiosity mixes with a little healthy competition, I believe wonderful things can happen.A gamer at OpenText is someone who wants to solve the next big business problem ahead of the team across the hall, or the company across the street. And they want to do it square. By the sweat of their brow and the strength of their ideas. At OpenText, we operate like we’re playing in a local rec hockey league—call it an inherent part of our foundational Canadian DNA.You’re friends with everyone on your team, and probably the other team too. When you’re on the ice, you might talk a little trash. You’ll hit hard. There might be a little bit of blood on the ice by the end of the game, or even a tooth or two. We call them Chiclets. But once the final buzzer sounds, you shake hands, have a good laugh, and share a beer.Games are more satisfying when you can work together to solve it, not when you’re hammering away at a problem alone in a room.
And games aren’t always just in service of having fun.Games can challenge you to think differently, to see solutions that would otherwise have eluded you.Games can bring people together—sharing a victory over treacherous odds can bond a group of people like nothing else.And games can even bring enlightenment or spiritual satisfaction. In many religions, the image of a labyrinth is used to guide meditation and lead to clarity or fulfillment. To find your way to the end is to turn a meandering journey into a meaningful one.At OpenText, we are endlessly curious. We play, we compete, we search, and we do so with delight to find what mysteries await us when we reach the final level.GritNothing worth doing is ever simple. Nothing worth having ever comes easy. Shortcuts and easy answers are rarely pathways to sustainable success. If they were, someone else would have beaten you there a long time ago.To succeed in anything, you must be determined, strong and resolute. You must not let any obstacles in your way stop you or discourage you.To be slowed down is not to be defeated. To be challenged is not to be discouraged. And the thing about grit is that it multiplies. If you stand alone against a challenge, your own determination—however mighty—may not be able to overcome. But if you are
in a team of those that share a willingness to persevere, the collective force of your tenacity can increase exponentially. Strength multiplies strength.
But sometimes, a task can just be really hard. It can take a strong individual spirit to reach the end.
Like this. Many of the other detours in this book are meant to be clever illustrations of a larger point. Or fun ways to learn something new about yourself.
This one is just hard. Really hard. See if you can make it to the end. Just remember, you need to think big.
Another thing about having grit at OpenText is that we all understand what having grit really means: that you’ve experienced failure.Failure is an inevitability. It is an essential part of doing business. No plan succeeds right away. No product thrives without stumbling.The typical Silicon Valley maxims to ‘fail fast,’ and ‘fail often,’ ‘break things,’ etc, often strike me as a little empty, as they tend to only apply to the company or products themselves. Not to the people within. In those stories, companies are allowed to fail. Entire businesses are permitted—even expected—to go under, leaving behind them nothing but a few patents and some office furniture.Then the next startup takes those ideas, that tech (and sometimes even those same Aeron chairs) and moves onto the next thing. It’s seen as a rite of passage for founders to have a couple of failed companies under their belts.But that doesn’t account for the smaller, more human failures that take place at companies every day.That type of tech mindset venerates failed companies but abhors mistakes made by individuals. Personal errors—bad lines of code, a botched marketing campaign, a lost deal—become fodder for ridicule within tech companies. Sole contributors, who were trying their best, are scapegoated or outright dismissed. People are
seen as disposable while the technology and the culture of the company, which are often as or more responsible for the mistakes in the first place, continue to blunder forward. Remember, it’s the fat on the steak that provides all the flavor. Overcoming the myriad small (or large) personal mistakes that are the stuff of everyday life and work takes grit. And it takes an environment that understands what it takes to build up that grit, that toughness.We see mistakes as normal, and failure as inevitable. We’ve all been there. If someone at OpenText makes a mistake, or if a project fails, we don’t point fingers. We embrace the people who took part, ask what they learned from the experience—because failure always, always teaches us something—and we move on.GuildsIn medieval times, some of the earliest examples of collective unions working together for the betterment of individuals and industry alike were guilds.Guilds represented tradespeople in skilled areas of work, such as blacksmithing and brewing, among many others. The aim of these collectives was not solely to bring industry people together. Guilds enabled and encouraged the dissemination of knowledge and skill across generations, and the ongoing communication of the value of that knowledge.When you joined a guild, you became part of something larger than yourself. You joined a like-minded community, a fellowship, a “band of brothers” (and sisters—because the skilled trades had no shortage of women, despite what the lopsided recollections of history would have you believe).
Guilds strove for their trade—the skills, the value, the prosperity they created—to endure across generations. Perhaps it’s a grand notion, but that is how we view our collective at OpenText. We aim for our relationships between employees to be more than simple teams within a company. When our people work together, it’s more than a quid pro quo interaction. Those who thrive at OpenText don’t think about ‘what’s in it for me.’ They think about how to achieve the ultimate goal, and how to do it together.Our people work together in ways deeper than simple teamwork. At OpenText, we know that none of us knows everything, and we rely on each other to achieve the amazing things we do.We protect each other, and we protect our knowledge. We take great satisfaction in sharing that knowledge—in handing what we know across to others so they can be enriched by our experience and our expertise.And this attitude prevails beyond the walls of individual departments within OpenText. The nature of our company is such that we come from many different places.Different backgrounds. Different cultures. Different parts of our planet. Some of us are long-time OpenText veterans, growing through change over many years. Others still from teams that joined us through acquisition. And yet those who thrive here all share an important core ideal: the ability to work together without hubris, without ego, and without putting others down so you can rise up.
Almost 500 years ago, Shakespeare coined a term I used a bit earlier: band of brothers. (And sisters, I hasten to add.) It was in Henry V, Act 4, Scene 3, a speech from King Henry to his troops on St. Crispian’s Day, the eve of the Battle of Agincourt. Henry’s English forces were vastly outnumbered by the French armies. His troops were lamenting their small numbers. The King was having none of that. He gave a rousing speech about fighting with those at your side and fighting hardest because you were doing so for each other.He spoke of being able to look back with pride and honor on the scars and memories from the coming battle and that: From this day to the ending of the world, [we] shall be remembered—we few, we happy few, we band of brothers.
The British won the day, and turned the tide of history.
Henry’s words were about a bond and a partnership that
is stronger than all others.
So too are we at OpenText a band of sisters and brothers,
a happy few who at the end of our careers will look back
at our monumental achievements and say “We did that,
and we did it together.” All Together. Tous ensemble.
Growth
A “growth mindset” is about more than increased profit
or customers.
Because growth happens to more than a company’s
bottom line.
It happens to products, which evolve beyond their initial parameters.
It happens to companies, which discover new strengths and solve new problems far beyond an original mission statement.
And most importantly, it happens to people.
People grow in their roles when they find a part of their job that inspires them to be better. To be more.
They grow in their lives as they take on new responsibilities, be those at work or at home.
They grow within themselves as they learn new things
about the person they are—they can even become
someone totally new.
I believe it is hugely important to recognize and acknowledge all manner of growth, and to encourage every one of our people to explore what growth means for them as individuals.Growth can be linear, or it can be a cycle. It can even mean starting over.Life is based on growth. The universe is based on growth. And the old maxim is true: grow or die.Sometimes a person starts in one path, in one career, and even if they are advancing on the surface, they feel like they are stagnant—or worse, regressing.Even if someone is doing all the “right things” and progressing in title, getting pay bumps and taking on more responsibility, it doesn’t mean that they are growing—if that isn’t the path they are meant to be on.Make no mistake, as the CEO & CTO of OpenText, I understand the importance of progressing along a career path, both in my own history and for the good of all employees. But I also understand that just as each of our employees is a unique individual, so is what growth looks like for each of them.Just as growth is vital for each of our employees, so too is it for OpenText as a company.We’ve been bold about our plans and actions for growth.We have scaled our business from our first dollar of revenue, to our first million, to our first 100 million, to our first billion, and now to $3.5 billion. We have never lost sight of the value of a dollar.
I have spoken publicly about doubling our company, again. We recently announced our firm intent to acquire Micro Focus. They are an amazing company with amazing people, technology and customers.
Doubling again is an ambitious goal, but in my opinion,
it is within our reach.
So just as I encourage our employees to grow, I also call upon each of you to help us make our overall growth a reality.
If you’re willing to come along, I can promise you that our company will do everything it can to help you undertake your own journey of growth into who and what you’re meant to be.
Goals
At the end of every game is a final goal. At the end of every journey of growth is a destination.
At OpenText, we are keenly focused on setting,
and reaching, ambitious yet attainable goals.
We have been spitefully written off as safe and conservative because we focus on maintaining profitability. Other companies might operate at a deliberate loss in service of building an impossible product or of gaining an advantage on a competitor.
But, even for companies who have succeeded in that mode of operation, doing so is, in my opinion, not about reaching a “goal,” it’s about chasing a fantasy. It’s gambling. It’s putting the stability and security of your company—and all the people who rely on it—at risk unnecessarily.
I see us as outsiders, as iconoclasts, as outlaws. Not as safe.
We also understand that even within one company, sometimes one team’s goal is at odds with the goal of another. There is often a big picture at work that not everyone can see at every moment, so even if you are working cross-functionally and notice that someone is working on something that doesn’t quite fit with what your team is doing, you remain focused on your own goal.
Successful OpenTexters are comfortable setting real goals, meeting them, then setting higher goals. Pragmatism and honesty are key factors of setting effective goals.
A goal set too far in the future invites a lack of focus and scuppers the possibility of achievement.
A cavalier goal set too high is begging for disappointment.
It’s important to distinguish, however, between a cavalier goal that’s too high and one that is just ambitious.
We aspire to double OpenText again.
Our real, lived experience shows us that this goal is within our reach. Our core businesses, combined with our recent moves into new and exciting areas of business—security,
for instance—shows that our potential is there, just waiting to be unlocked.
It’s our shared goal. And each goal that we all set for ourselves every day, every week, every quarter, gets us closer to making it a reality.
Then once we meet that goal, we’ll set a higher one.
Gratitude Gratitude is more than giving thanks and being kind. It is the way you forge connections with others. When appreciation is shown, it empowers and motivates everyone around us. Gratitude is a habit essential to anyone looking to be successful at OpenText.You are grateful to others for your own success, because no success is built by one set of hands.You give thanks to those around you—those who challenge you, those who support you, those who laid the groundwork upon which you built.Gratitude is the hallmark of a healthy emotional intelligence. You recognize the importance and contribution of others. You are respectful and strive to celebrate and champion talent and ideas.If you are unable to demonstrate genuine gratitude, to express it beyond platitudes, you have no humility. Without humility, there are no relationships. Without relationships—with each other, our customers, our partners and our communities—we will cease to exist, both corporately and emotionally.Working at OpenText can be tough. We are a company that demands excellence, and we don’t seek the spotlight. Like excellence, gratitude is a daily practice—an expectation of ourselves and each other.It is our willpower: to continuously put our customers, and their ambitions, first.
Gratitude grounds us. It allows us to be present. It gives us perspective. When the pressure is on, the chaos of deadlines looming and tension mounting, gratitude guides us.
It reminds us why we are here, the purpose of the work.
In the face of turmoil, it is essential to the spirit of those
who succeed at OpenText.
There will always be emergencies, but we face them together. We stand shoulder-to-shoulder with colleagues whom we trust to do the right thing for our work, our customers and each other.
We are grateful for the opportunities and challenges ahead, safe in the knowledge that we have each other and are motivated by the work to do good things. Gratefully.
The final G
Six qualities make up the character of a successful OpenTexter, which we’ve explored above.
One more G encompasses all of those into how they are lived in and by each individual. It also speaks to how we operate as a company, in a way that I believe is in stark contrast to how most of the tech industry exists.
To truly exhibit and believe in the Gs, and to exist as a customer-first company, you need to act in service to those around you, without ego and without reservation.
You must act with grace.
The final G.
To be understanding. To offer favor—even when it is not required. The word’s Hebrew roots connect ‘grace’ with ‘favor’ directly, and go farther: to act with kindness even
as a superior to an inferior.
Grace, as a word or an idea, has a certain weight attached to it. Some religions believe that capital-G “Grace” is only something that can be given by God. I respect that belief, but I also believe that it is incumbent on all of us mere mortals to act with whatever human grace we can,
whenever we can.
I believe we owe it to each other to act with kindness and charity. And I believe that as a company, we owe it to our customers to place them first and to align our work and
our goals with theirs.
Grace is how we look after each other at work every day.
It is how we can push each other and disagree but still
shake hands and appreciate each other’s time.
Grace is what other tech companies actively eschew through cutthroat competition for favor, or glory, or title. What they abdicate by taking advantage of customers, by invading our privacy, by putting their own success ahead of their customers’ or our world.
Grace is the glue that holds us all together, providing the framework through which we live and work at OpenText.
This is “pulling Gs.” The G-Force: Gamers, Grit, Guilds, Growth, Goals, Gratitude and Grace.
OpenText is everywhere.
We enable trillions of digital transactions a year across 100 million end users.
We build cultures of knowing through information and collaboration platforms.
We power supply chains all over the world, helping companies put products on store shelves.
We find the needle in the haystack to defend the innocent or incarcerate the criminal.
Without us, trucks can’t fill warehouses, businesses can’t sell products, and people can’t eat.
We’re finance. Our software enables movement of money through ACH and Swift protocols. If a business or government or individual needs to move funds across borders or around the world, we’re there.
We’re health care. We enable the rapid exchange of
medical records between doctors, hospitals and clinics to keep us healthy.
We’re aerospace. Manufacturers and researchers use
our technology to design, build and move aircraft around the world.
We’re consumer packaged goods. We help companies grow, process and ship the food that fills grocery store shelves and pantries.
We’re humanitarian. Our systems power technology solutions for refugees to help stabilize and resettle those impacted by wars and disasters. We also provide services to global organizations working to end the exploitation of children around the world.
We’re energy decarbonization.
We’re self-driving cars.
We’re clinical trials and connected healthcare.
Our main product domains are information management, customer experience, business networks, threat intelligence and data protection.
We are everywhere.
A day in the life
What did you do today? Where did you go? What did you eat? Did you buy anything?
I’m willing to bet that if you’re reading this in the vicinity of one of our major centers of operations, more than one aspect of your life has been touched by OpenText today.
We are the largest software company in the world that
you will never see on TV, on a racing car, or on a billboard. But our customers know us intimately and trust us with
their most sensitive data and transactions. We are their
life partner.
Sustainable products in your cereal. IOT on public transit. Support for tech manufacturers. The networks that power teleconferencing. Supply chains for your phone. Manufacturing your warm weather gear. Administration for restaurant chains. App development support. Appliance manufacturing logistics.
Nestle, Fox Entertainment, New York City Transit, Dell, Cisco, T-Mobile, Blue Cross, Carhartt, Bloomin’ Brands Inc. restaurants, Heineken, Rosetta Stone, Miele. OpenText
was there!
That’s a pretty typical day.
What we do matters. Daily life continuing uninterrupted for hundreds of millions of people around the globe relies on OpenText systems.
We don’t get to take our eyes off the goal or whiff on a product release. The work we do at OpenText today literally keeps the world working.
This isn’t practice time.
Detour
But it can also be puzzle time.
The work we do here is important. Now, however, is time for some even more crucial work: ordering lunch for your team.
Much of programming is all about logic. Many of OpenText’s products involve parsing incomplete data to find results.
This little detour involves both.
You are tasked with placing a pizza order for your team’s lunch. Your office cafeteria can make custom pizzas with cheese plus two additional toppings from a list of four toppings.Each of your colleagues gave you their order, but you got overconfident and didn’t write it down. You remember a few details about who ordered what, and you’re sure you can work out everyone’s pizza with the information you have.
Where we come fromWe are innovators.OpenText as it exists today grew out of a project at the University of Waterloo, in Ontario, Canada. But nothing in our history is a straight line. Our earliest beginnings were focused on creating software to index the full Oxford English Dictionary. That work led us to write code for searching and indexing huge volumes of text online. In the mid-1990s, as our history page on the OpenText website tells it, we shipped our first web-based product, “allowing Yahoo! to search every word on every webpage.”Some of our code formed the backbone for search on the internet. Our software powers 97 out of the top 100 companies on Earth.A major customer who uses both platforms told us: “If our ERP goes down, we can manage for a week on manual processes. If OpenText goes down, we have to ground all our aircraft immediately.” Our job is making damn sure that OpenText doesn’t go down, that our customers stay up, and that we continue to innovate new solutions to keep global business flowing.We’re different. We know it, and our customers know it. We build our reputation on not just great technology but on our post-sales support. More than that, our customers tell us we’re different.
When our customers have a problem, we’re more willing than other companies to meet them on their side of the line to solve it.We don’t pull out our contracts whenever there’s a challenge and point out that it’s not our responsibility to solve it.We roll up our sleeves and get the work done.Our fluency in the language of businessSome of our earliest lines of code decorated the walls of our Silicon Valley office. We entered the building every day under the watchful eye of one of our earliest innovations.Our true expertise today is in helping companies power and protect information—in whatever form it takes—elevating organizations of all sizes to be their best.The list of accomplishments from 30 years of our company includes some transformational technologies and ground-breaking technologies that underpin some of today’s most essential systems.
We also work with and refine a subset of information algorithms that each do incredible things.
Our technology can find hidden information in a sea of raw data. It’s like a game of Where’s Waldo, or finding a needle
in a haystack, only if you don’t know what Waldo—or
a needle—looks like in the first place.
Our algorithms need to evaluate seemingly random data and look for very specific pieces of information and then parse what they could mean. Can you work some of the same magic—without an algorithm to help you out?
Detour
Spycraft in the early-to-mid twentieth century often relied on subtle methods of contacting agents that were hidden in plain view. It was a matter of knowing how to separate relevant data from the unrelated information around it.
One method that intelligence agencies had for making contact with agents was to seed coded messages into seemingly innocuous radio programs. An agent’s name would be scrambled and hidden in innocent-sounding text. When an agent found their name in a broadcast, they would know to reach out to their handler.
There are no limitsOur range of outcomes is practically limitless.The simple idea of “what we do” as a company can encompass so many products, technology areas and applications that defining us down to a simple mission statement is practically impossible.And that is what makes working here so amazing.You can wake up in the morning and have no idea what your day will bring, or what problem you will help solve.A career at OpenText can be the same type of story as that of our company.It can be anything.As I told you earlier, maybe somewhere in the multiverse, OpenText is the name in internet search. We took a different path.Any one of those myriad ideas in the impressive list earlier can occupy an amazing team for years at a time—or they could drop out in a heartbeat.You could build business networks one week and be working in security and threat detection the next. You could be facilitating global supply chains on a Monday and building systems to help cure cancer by Thursday.We don’t just build technology. We help the world soldier on, one (trillion) piece(s) of information at a time.
Where are we going?Looking at what we do is important. Even more important is understanding where all that work leads us.Without strategy—without a goal—you will end up mired in products without a purpose or a cohesive whole.As they say, if you don’t turn soon, you will end up exactly where you are going—whether that’s where you actually wanted to be or not.That’s why OpenText has decided to make a deliberate turn and triple down to transform our business and accelerate into the next generation of the Cloud, which we call The OpenVerse™.The OpenVerse™ is where information lives. You see, information is exponential, machine-created, ever expanding, autonomic. It touches and influences every human being, every machine, everything. Technology is an evolutionary process that improves itself—it multiplies and it evolves. Information innovation is multiplicative, not additive. Information is sentient and it lives in the OpenVerse™, which holds all the world’s knowledge. The OpenVerse™ is the dictionary. The index of a functioning society. I hope you will help us to rediscover our roots in the OED as we aspire to be stewards of all the world’s information—to rediscover where we started, and to learn that place again, as if it were new.The OpenVerse™ is cloud native. It is information management at scale, powering large and small organizations alike.
Its domain is frictionless business for content, collaboration, support chains, customer experience. It is trust.It embraces the developer.It supports sustainable and inclusive growth.It will create ultimate cultures of knowing. It will help cure cancer, power supply chains, find the next 100 years of energy, create commerce, help all humans to have an IQ over 150, save one percent of the world’s trees. It will create a new sense of joy for information technology.
There are four aspects that surround the heart of our philosophy.North star: That which guides us, brings us forward, and propels our people and the core of our business goals, which are to power and protect information.Frontline obsession: We put relationships with our customers at the forefront of everything we aim to achieve.Owner’s mindset: I want every employee to be, and act, as if they are an owner of the business. That means we make long-term decisions, always have a bias for cash, and we choose excellence over harmony. We aren’t afraid to push and challenge each other, to be our best. (Though it’s vital to also respect one another, even in times of disharmony.)Total growth: Life is based on growth. If you are not busy growing, you are busy dying. So total growth relies on us behaving as if it is always day one on the job, with energy and ideas and change, building eco-systems, and growth to us is only good growth if it is sustainable and inclusive.These interconnected concepts—this OpenText Way—is our espirit de corps in the OpenVerse™, and it produces our company values (also found in the crossword): Be deserving of trust.Sweat the details.Aim high.The unexpected ‘wow.’But there’s one value missing. What about three words from the crossword that haven’t fit anywhere so far?
The Nintendo ‘Wii.’ A ‘knot’ tied at sea. The ‘eye’ as the window to the soul.I admit a bit of trickery there.Sound those words out. Go ahead, say it out loud.Wii, knot, eye.We, not I.Our final OpenText value. And in my opinion, the most important one.We are not a company of glory-seekers, or of cutthroat competitors. We do not work to advance selfish goals or to push our colleagues down. If you’re already at OpenText, or if you join us, you will note that whenever I reach out and address the company in talks or communications, I always purposefully start with “Dear colleagues.” Never “staff.” Never “employees.” We are colleagues.And we are a collective that understands the importance of collective good versus selfish personal gain. We do not suffer those who are cruel or craven in pursuit of success. If you’ll forgive the language: assholes are not welcome here. Look back at the crossword. Read those words again.Now take time to acknowledge something.I didn’t write those words. You did.Those are your words. Those are the words of your colleagues at this company.They define who we are and why our customers choose to place their trust in us every day.
Our systems power essential infrastructure all around the world. We manage information and secure data for hospitals, governments, national security agencies, global aviation corporations … the list really does go on and on. These major organizations have the choice of any technology in the world.
And they choose OpenText.
They trust OpenText.
We work every day, with these values at heart, to continually earn and justify that trust.
We LOVE our customers
Our values exist deeper than a piece of graphic design
to put on a poster or in a slideshow.
We are always in search of new ways to earn the trust
of our customers.
A typical customer engagement approach uses the
LAER model: land, adopt, expand, renew.
We felt that model was too inward focused, was
growing outdated, and didn’t reflect the more active and collaborative way in which OpenText serves our customers
in the OpenVerse™.
As in any engagement model, you must first land the customer.
But in a traditional model, the next step relies heavily on the customer to do the work to ‘adopt’ your offerings. In a rapidly changing technological world, no company can be expected to know how to integrate outside systems. It is incumbent on the supplier themselves to take an active role in onboarding and integrating their technology into a customer’s tech stack.
It’s not just about selling a product to be dealt with by the customer. It’s about operating an always evolving set of
tools that can grow and adapt to a customer’s needs.
We never sell a ‘finished product’ to our customers.
We sell the promise of creating the best possible solution
to a customer’s needs—even if that solution doesn’t exist yet. We help them find it.
Once that is achieved, then the customer sees the full value of what OpenText can offer. The relationship builds and OpenText demonstrates just how integral our systems can be to power and protect a customer’s information and to achieve their ultimate business goals.
At this third stage of the old engagement model, LAER is already seeking expansion—without even ensuring that a customer is satisfied. Again, looking inward, at a company’s own needs, not at the needs of those they serve.
LOVE builds value and communicates trust. Only then can you explore continued partnership and expand your business with a customer.
LOVE really is, as the song goes, all you need.
Flip the script
As a company, we fly inverted.
One thing that everyone notices when they join OpenText
is that the first time they see an org chart, our leaders are at the bottom.
This is not by accident.
It is one of the ultimate acts of corporate hubris to build a traditional org chart that places the CEO, or the head
of a department, at the top.
To me, it brings to mind an analogy about monkeys.
To me, it simply isn’t sustainable to run a company in the way described in the previous puzzle, with employees trying to scry meaning from scattered guano dropped by leadership. Those in positions of authority should never act without thinking of what their decisions will mean for those who
will have to make those projects a reality.
Everyone here is accountable. Everyone considers what their actions mean for those around them.
And for those lucky enough to be in a leadership position,
it is understood that the job of a leader is to stand in support of everyone who works for you, not to lord over them.
Who you help defines who you are
The most telling part of who we are is when our clients achieve great things using our technology. Or when we lend our voice to crucial inflection points in an industry, or in our world.
When the U.S. National Institutes of Health—the centerpiece of national health administration and the hub of research and communication for health professionals for the entire country—had to shift its workforce online to allow
work-from-home at the start of the COVID-19
pandemic, OpenText made it happen. Our technology enabled health and research data to flow seamlessly. Hundreds of millions of lives depended on unimpeded access to health records and to clinical trial
data that aided the development of COVID-19 vaccines.
When the pandemic upended day-to-day life and schooling across America, children who depended on the school system for meal programs could have gone hungry.
But OpenText was there.
The Garland Independent School District—one of the largest school systems in the state of Texas—relied on OpenText systems to facilitate its digital collaboration and ensure delivery of tens of thousands of meals for children every day.
And when law enforcement and prosecutors needed to collect and organize data on child trafficking at the Southern Alberta Internet Child Exploitation Unit, our technology reduced time to case closure and improved investigation
and prosecution rates.
Children are safer today because of OpenText.
South African National Parks uses OpenText for critical core functions and collaboration on its operations, which include endangered rhinoceros conservation projects and the management of more than four million hectares of land.
Dozens of OpenText clients leverage our technology to reduce paper use across a huge range of departments. Accounting, logistics, human resources—areas of
business basically synonymous with “paperwork.”
A little bit of math here: One tree produces 10,000 pages
of paper. In 2019, businesses printed more than three trillion pages—an amount that is also coincidentally the estimated number of trees on the planet. Can better information management save one percent of the trees on earth?
If tech like ours can save businesses 280,000,000 printed pages, we sure can. And we’re on our way.
Roche—one of the world’s biggest biotech companies—uses OpenText tech along its entire value map to help teams share information on patient treatments during cancer care.
And Cardinal Health, a global health services company, is relied on by 90 percent of all U.S. hospitals, 29,000 pharmacies, not to mention millions upon millions of patients to deliver crucial medical supplies every day. Cardinal Health tells one particular story about how little margin for error there is in their industry. When life-saving medical treatments are being shipped across the country, every single second matters. Some individual medicines and treatments are so sensitive, so delicate, that their window of use is vanishingly small. These items are created in climate-controlled labs and manufacturing facilities, and getting them to clinics and hospitals to save lives requires a dizzyingly complex supply chain. Every step of the process is checked and rechecked and contingencies are built into contingencies, because if you don’t, someone will die. Cardinal Health uses OpenText to build and manage these logistical networks, to get these life-saving drugs into the hands of the doctors and nurses that need them in the precious 30-minute window before they expire. Cardinal Health uses OpenText to help save lives.This one strikes a little close to home.In 2015, I was diagnosed with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML). I was given a five percent survival rate for the next two years. But being the person I am, and the admittedly privileged position in which I found myself, I threw myself into research and worked with doctors and experts from across the globe to leverage advancements and treatments into a plan for my unique situation.Seven years later, and thanks to more than 600 hours of chemotherapy, radiation treatment, a bone marrow transplant, immunotherapy and recovery work, I am
cancer-free. I had access to treatment and expertise.
I am proud that our company makes the work of those experts—and millions more—available to patients who
need it that might not have had access otherwise.
We didn’t set out to achieve any of those results—not at first. No one at OpenText woke up one day a few years ago and said “We’re going to protect children today” or “We’re going to save the rain forest today” or “We’re going to cure cancer today.”But we did come to work every day with the goal of helping our clients achieve all of their most important feats.We didn’t say: “Our products can’t do that.” We said: “How can we help?” It is never a ‘no,’ it is a ‘yes, if.’We operated with the grace to look beyond what we believed was possible and into the realm of the impossible, and then we made it happen.I also learned servant leadership through my cancer journey. When I was in the hospital for over 60 days, every night at 3AM a nurse would come in and gently wake me, say hello, and draw my labs. These nurses and hospital staff never treated their work—or me—with disdain. They were professional. They were kind. They took what could have been a rote, mundane or unpleasant task and made it humane. They showed respect and treated me as a person.It forever ingrained in me a “servant attitude” towards leadership: to provide the most respect for those who may be in a position of less authority than you, who do their work with precision, with purpose, and with love.My own journey—through tech, through Silicon Valley, through cancer, through the valley of the shadow of death and life itself—has helped me see what I can do to help this company be successful, and what I can do to help make you successful. Humbly, I am now here to share what I know and what I have, to share the rod I carried, so you can help make OpenText—and yourself—the best we can be.Bad languageOpenText operates one of the most diverse talent eco-systems on the planet. We are a collective of engineers, developers, architects, Dev-Sec-Op experts, cloud experts, threat hunters, security experts, value engineers, implementation consultants, transformational consultants, call center experts, service, product marketing, product management, inside sales, outside sales, quality engineers, user design professionals, and even more. But we are more than a collection of titles. We are experts. OpenText is comprised of 99 percent Bachelors graduates, 40 percent Masters, and 20 percent PhDs. Our pooled knowledge, expertise and dedication is staggering.
We bring together all of this talent for a common goal and build a unit that is more than a typical company.Ten years ago, the role of Dev-Sec-Ops expert simply did not exist. Our ecosystem will create new knowledge, and the diversity of our expertise will co-mingle and create new species of professionals whose skill sets are brand new to our industry and our world. The obvious metaphor to draw on here is one that is so overused (and abused) by corporations as to be cliché. The F-word. Family.And as much as it’s hacky and trite, and even though it’s far from a perfect illustration of how OpenText exists, the comparison isn’t inapt—though how I’d employ it differs from how you might expect.Where other companies will say “When you work here, you’re family” to engender loyalty, what they mean is “Work harder for less money. Don’t let your family down.”That’s emotional blackmail.Other invocations of family also overlook that the very idea of family can be fraught. No two families are alike, and none are perfect. Some families are blood, others are made by choice, and none have less value than others. We borrow the most important parts of ‘family’ and discard the rest.When I look at how OpenText feels like family to me, I think about how even when we fight (and we will fight), and when times are tough (which they will be), our people know that those around them will support them no matter what. We strive for familiar, not formal.
And to flip the idea on its head entirely, I also believe that OpenText respects the idea of family by acknowledging that we are not that, for everyone. For many, if not most, of our employees, family is another, wholly separate priority.
We understand that life doesn’t begin and end when work starts in the morning, and that priorities can shift within
a year or within a moment.
I believe, and I try to lead our company to believe, that the most important ideal to imbue in our employees is the same one that parents should teach to their children: that each of us must design ourselves by what we love—that you are you, and no one else.
We celebrate and shout our uniqueness, seek to be no one but who we are, to create ourselves every day, and to wrap that conviction in a thousand suns.
We trust that if given that space, that trust, and that freedom, each of us can attain the joy and fulfillment that
will let us do our best every day for ourselves, each other, and our world.
That is who we are.
When I started in tech, product cycles could take years from beginning to end. I was educated by classics such as the Mythical Man Month and The Boeham-Waterfall Model of engineering. I’m ancient, is what I’m trying to say.
You wrote code on whiteboards and tested on closed systems. You manually debugged thousands—even millions—of lines
of code. Oh Hex, you debugged code in a hex editor.
You assembled test environments on bulky machines
and built programs from arcane languages.
After years of work, a product would be born.
To get it into peoples’ hands, you made thousands of
floppy disks, or pressed millions of CD-ROMs and mailed them in padded envelopes all around the world.
“Oh, the retro-aesthetics!” to quote my niece.
Feedback from customers came in on comment cards,
or by faxes and phone calls—emails would come later,
once adoption of the internet grew. Rarely, if ever, did you get to see how your code was being used in the real world. Patches were a pipe dream. Once something was out the door, once the animal was out of the zoo, there was little
you could do to change it or get it back.
It’s a world that would feel both impossibly small and incomprehensibly vast to coders and software companies today. Your workspace was limited to one server, one box, one office. And yet your software could end up anywhere in the world, on systems you couldn’t imagine. It was impersonal. It constrained innovation. It was glacial.
Time marched on.
Product cycles started to shrink. Three years became two, which became 18 months. Widespread access to broadband internet and a move away from installation CDs meant that software shifted in the minds of customers and users from something tangible to something digital. Updates could be pushed to machines anywhere at any time, and customers expected faster improvements and greater support.
Over the last decade, the 18-month product cycle has compressed even further. Nimble startups move from idea to viable product in less than a year. Today, no one updates their Yahoo!, or Google, or Facebook. It just is.
Why am I taking this long view through the history
of business software?
Because we lived through it. And we thrived.
The need for speed?
OpenText now operates on a 90-day product cycle.
Our customers expect it. We go from idea to new
software in a customer’s hands in 90 days.
An idea leads to a scrum. Then, story boards, prototypes, code, dev-sec-ops, and we push into production. That kernel of an idea is available to millions of users, globally, in less than three months.
We do this over and over and over again. It’s our battle rhythm. We release 25,000 plus new facets a quarter,
live into product.
We move fast. As fast as the world around us. And we intend to go faster and faster and faster.
If you expect a lot of breathing room in your projects or want an environment with a team that lays plenty of runway to get things done, OpenText may not be for you.If you want months of time for research, testing, prototyping and discussion, OpenText isn’t the place. Extended development cycles cost money. If a company isn’t delivering products for your customers every quarter, you are not fulfilling your responsibility. Time to value is everything.Our next big step is to get our release cycles to every six weeks, just like a haircut.Be brief and be goneWe are not a company that dithers. We are not a company that spins its wheels. We act. We produce. We will not put our business on hold for a wild, unproven notion. We build products that our customers need today, right now, not nine months from now. We believe in customer-centric innovation.And the OpenVerse™ will only accelerate our work.Two years from now, ninety days will seem like an eternity as we launch new products or push updates monthly, or even weekly.As cloud technology evolves, and as our world moves even faster and more fully into distributed and quantum computing, business systems will become even more fluid than they already are.Magnets attract and they repel. Same with people and companies.
If none of this sounds appealing, perhaps we are not the right place for you.
You work for who?
Some companies are so closely associated with what they do that their name becomes a generic term.
Band-Aid. Kleenex. Xerox. Specific brand name versions of commonplace items that have slid into common use for any adhesive bandage, tissue or photocopier.
You can Google something. You can’t OpenText something. But you can be an OpenTexter.
And I think that’s fantastic.
To be synonymous with one thing—even when your company does a panoply of different things—is to be put into a box. Sure, it can be a lucrative box, and it can even be the end goal of a reasonable person’s business plan. But it’s not my goal, and it’s not OpenText’s. Rather, we view the OpenVerse™ as a vast expanding space of ideas and potential.
OpenText might not be a household name, but it’s a name that carries the weight of achievement for what we’ve done, and that bears the trust of a huge range of people and companies around the world. The most trusted companies trust OpenText, and they not only know our name, they know who we are.
And it’s a name that has room to grow.
We are not defined by a single product, or a single industry. We exist to evolve, and to serve the needs of the customers who depend on us.
We are free to adapt our products as needed. We are not chained to the burden of legacy expectations. If a new solution presents itself that will serve our customers better, we jump at it.
We are continually expanding our view to encompass new fields of technology, new partnerships, new acquisitions, and new possibilities. Look no further than our recent announcement on Micro Focus.
You can’t do that when you’re a company known for only
one thing.
Cut the trappings
The tech world is notorious for substituting bells and whistles for a humane working environment. Route 101 in Silicon Valley has the husks of tens of thousands of dead companies on the side of the road.
Ping pong tables in place of work/life balance.
Paintball tournaments in place of a voice that is heard
by senior management.
We believe a workplace should be human above all else.
We ask excellence of our employees and reward it by creating an environment that is welcoming, challenging and that encourages real growth and development, not empty platitudes or trinkets.
We don’t hide unreasonable expectations, impossible goals or unfeeling leadership behind a veneer of superficial rewards.
At OpenText, we trust that every employee knows their work, has the skills to succeed, and has great ideas to bring to our projects. As with our belief that each OpenTexter can forge their own path through their career, we know that brilliant ideas can come from anywhere.
We display that trust by giving each employee—no matter their tenure or title—the opportunity to contribute in more ways that are defined by any one job description.
At OpenText, you get a seat at the table.
The bottom line
We all work to get paid. It’s naïve to think anything else. We are a performance culture where we disproportionately reward our best performers. The more you contribute,
the more you can earn.
In an ideal world, we’re all paid well, commensurate to our contribution, for doing something we find engaging, challenging and fun.
In the real world, compromises are part of life.
We’re not the biggest player on the block, but we are one
of the most differentiated, like Dr Seuss’ Thing 1 and Thing 2. We’re not a company with a market cap in the hundreds
of billions that can outmuscle its competitors for talent just
with a pay cheque. We focus on total reward.
‘Total reward’ is the intersection of four ideas: Growth, compensation, wellbeing, doing good.
I can’t possibly write a piece in a book like this and promise that our company can pay every one of our employees the highest salary that they could potentially earn in the industry based on the enormity of the tech industry and the desperate fight for talent going on as we speak. You can always seek a job with more pay in the short-term, but we believe deeply in investing in you for the long-term.
What I can do is promise three things:
One: we will always do right by our employees, paying each contributor as best we can. The more you achieve, the more you can earn.
Two: we will provide a culture of opportunity and openness, giving each OpenTexter the ability to grow, explore and thrive over the course of their entire career. And we have ample opportunity for you to spend your entire career with us.
Three: if you choose to leave for another opportunity,
and it doesn’t fit, we’ll answer your call.
The most that many tech companies will promise you is the first of those three things. They will pay—overpay, even—to get people in the door and keep them quiet, and then they will wring every cent’s worth of joy from their employees
and slam the door behind them if they choose to walk away.
is antithetical to how we operate as
a company—how I want our company to treat its people.
Other companies see money as the answer to every problem, but I know that as necessary as money is to all
of us, you can’t throw cash at every problem and expect
it to cure everything, or to make good what is broken.
You can pay people to come, but you can’t buy the contentment that a supportive environment and graceful treatment creates.
We offer a company, and a culture, where growth and ambition are nurtured, where employees can choose
to experience new things and take on new challenges,
and where the door is always open.
A career at OpenText will ideally offer not only the fruit
of being paid to exercise your skills, but the satisfaction
of doing work that is itself genuinely rewarding.
In the Bhagavad Gita, there is a passage about the spirit
of action and work that leads to a fulfilled spirit.
Translated, it reads:
“You have a right to perform your prescribed duties, but you are not entitled to the fruits of your actions. Never consider yourself to be the cause of the results of your activities,
nor be attached to inaction.”
It is about recognizing your place as part of something bigger than yourself, and not attaching your own self-worth to the results of your actions. If you work only towards
the material and personal benefits of what you do, you devalue the work of others and you risk disillusionment
with whatever outcome or reward comes about.
The Gita also employs the metaphor of the Ashvattha—the tree of life. Krishna states that the tree’s true form and lifespan are unknowable in this world, but that its branches and roots grow in infinitely complex forms where we can
see and where we cannot.
My journey through life—through business, through cancer, through joy and through pain—has imbued in me a strong sense of the spiritual. I have come so close to death as to feel its grasp. As the Buddha said: “I’m not divine, I am simply a man who is awake.” I am in no way comparing myself to
the Buddha, and I don’t claim to have all the answers,
but I do believe that I see with some clarity, and that
I see what is important to me in this life.
I truly believe that it is the work that matters, not the fruit.
As the Gita says, “if you focus on the fruits, you will be lost.” The mission is work. The mission is knowledge. The mission is striving to be happy, even should you live to be 99 years old, continuing to do what you love, to build knowledge,
to be awake.
If all you’re looking for at the end of your career is an enormous pile of fruit with nothing to show and no pride
in how you built that pile, then OpenText isn’t for you.
OpenText is not like other companies. We are outsiders.
I hope that if nothing else, that’s been made clear by now.
We’re not the biggest name, or the flashiest tech,
but we are wicked smart, ambitious, and pick our moments.
We work to make our customers wildly successful.
We know our stuff, we achieve our goals, we live by our principles, and we’re going somewhere big.
The OpenVerse™.
The question is: will you join us?
If you’re already an OpenText employee, are you ready
and willing to be a part of this transformation?
If you’re thinking of joining us, does this sound like a place you could spend your career?
We are not seeking those who fit into our culture.
We are looking for those who add to our culture.
Leaders at all levels Creating the OpenVerse™ will take leadership from more than people managers or executives. It will take initiative and engagement from every employee. It will take the most diverse eco-system on the planet of wicked smart designers, architects, programmers, cloud engineers, dev-sec-ops practitioners, implementors, customer success analysts, threat hunters, and great marketers and salespeople!I believe leadership is a choice, not a position. Leaders aren’t just found at the head of the table, they come from all sides. Every person is a leader: leader of self, leader of a team, or leader of an organization. I also believe in round meeting tables, where all ideas are debated equally.And a true leader understands that the principles they live by are not just for a poster above the water cooler or channel notes in Slack. They are the way, the fundamental truths that bind an organization together, at work, at home and at play.At OpenText our principles are clear—you helped write them earlier in this very book. Our principles define how we treat customers, make decisions, debate ideas, create plans, author new products, interview potential new colleagues and advance our teammates and ourselves. They guide us as we explore and encounter challenges and the unknown. They provide air to lift our flight, and grounding in troubled times.I have a plaque in my office that reads CAVU: Ceiling and Visibility Unlimited. It means that we can clearly see the way ahead, and that our potential is limitless. If you live by those principles, and if you can inhabit the qualities of the G-Force, you can be a leader for yourself and for OpenText, and your ceiling and visibility will be unlimited.
To the OpenVerse™, and beyondNo one knows what the future will bring. But we know the future is made of the best parts of today. In business, and especially in technology, planning ahead is increasingly an impossible gambit. A five-year plan used to be the bedrock of every organization. Today, anticipating five years down the road feels like science fiction.Our three-year plan, the launch of the OpenVerse™, is about embracing big change and setting the stage for the next three decades. Cloud, LOVE, the G-Force, information management and quantum are just the start. We have an idea of what our world could be—what it might be—and we are preparing ourselves to meet that possibility. And we are also prepared to take on new directions, new challenges and new unknowns.We do this by remaining true to who we are. We are a company with a bias for action. We work together to use the information we have to make the best decisions we can in the moment—not waiting for an invitation to act that may never come. And once we act, we accept responsibility for whatever outcome may fall. We don’t pass the buck. Recall, one of our core values is: “We sweat the details.”We’re a company that is powered by tenacity, persistence, and above all, a driving and insatiable curiosity to know the unknown, to solve the unsolvable. We focus on the work and the customer success. We’re a company with a commitment to managing costs to ensure we can continue to operate at our peak. Sometimes that means our belts and budgets are a little tighter than other tech companies. This is who we are.
The OpenText heart
The G-Force. Our values. Our purpose. Our goals.
The OpenVerse™.
We’re a global company with a Canadian soul—one of inclusion, multi-culturalism, with a deep sense of value, and we play hockey until the ice is pink. For those who find their true place here, OpenText rewards them in return in body, spirit, mind and soul.
I’ve spent this entire book defining what makes OpenText unique. But in reality, it isn’t a ‘what’ that makes our company special—it’s ‘who.’
It’s the curious gamers who won’t rest until they’ve solved the problem that’s troubling our customer.
It’s the dauntless explorer who loves going off the beaten path to create something unique.
It’s the passionate leader who stands behind their team and pushes them to be better.
It’s the graceful colleague who steps in to lend a hand when someone is down.
If you are inspired by anything in this book and want to make your own mark, you have the OpenText heart.
If you are intrigued by the detours and puzzles in this book and want to dive deeper, you have the OpenText heart.
If you are excited by the limitless possibilities of building
the OpenVerse™, the foundation of the world of industry and information that will guide our planet’s future, you definitely have the OpenText heart.
